In the last lecture, we set up Jenkins on Amazon SC two, and that is the most practical and real world
way of running.
Jenkins.
And as I said before, all the demos and real world use cases in this lecture will be demonstrated using
Jenkins running on EC2.
And if you use RT to micro, that should be covered under free tier and you should not incur any cost
for Jenkins.
But optionally some of you want to run Jenkins on your local desktop or laptop.
So in this lecture I'm going to go over that.
But note that if you are following my demos and you pass an error while you run Jenkins and Local,
you need to troubleshoot that yourself.
All right, let's get started.
So the way we are going to run Jenkins on our local laptop or desktop is we are going to grab the Jenkins
container image from Docker Hub and then we are going to run that image in our desktop and then access
the Jenkins running within that container image.
A couple of things to keep in mind.
To run this, you need Docker running on your local machine and any time you push on a source code into
your GitHub repository, it should trigger the Jenkins job using a webhook.
More on that later.
But if you are using Jenkins on your local desktop or laptop, you won't be able to do that.
And another thing, in some use cases, Jenkins will create a Docker.
Now, since Jenkins itself is running on Docker, that means for those use cases you need darker and
darker and darker and darker is prone to errors.
So you might get some error, but if you want to install Jenkins on your local and want to play around,
by all means, please go ahead.
So first we need a Jenkins Docker container image.
And to do that, we have to go where all the Docker container lives in the Internet.
Docker hub.
So I'm going to Docker Hub dot com and then in the search bar I'm going to type in Jenkins.
Then click the Fast Jenkins official image.
Now scroll down a little bit, and this is the important part.
This image has been deprecated for over two years in favor of this Jenkins slash Jenkins Colon Ltz image.
So we are just going to click this and it is going to take you to the most current image.
So as you can see, this is a fully functional Jenkins server based on the weekly and LTZ releases.
Now before we run Docker Pool or Docker run, click on this documentation for usage options.
So I'm going to right click an open link in a new tab.
If you scroll down, there are different ways to execute the command and we are going to use this third
command.
So to go over different options minus D runs the Docker in the background, minus V is an important
option.
This creates a Docker volume on the host machine.
So when you run your Jenkins, you create user ID password, you create pipelines, you install new
plugins, all that information is stored in the Docker volume that will survive the container stop,
restart and deletion.
The Jenkins underscore home will be the name of the Docker volume and slash var slash Jenkins underscore
home is where it will get the data from the running container.
And then we have two different port mappings.
The first port mapping 8080 colon 88 t simply maps the container port attached to the localhost port
88.
By default, Jenkins exposes itself in this port so we can run localhost colon 88 to access our Jenkins
server.
The second port option, which is mapping 50,000 port number from container to 50,000 in the local host,
is useful if you want to connect to a worker agent.
If you run the builds on the primary node out of the box, then we don't need this.
But it's easier to just copy, paste and run the command, so we'll keep it for now.
And finally, the name of the container image Jenkins slash Jenkins Colon.
Let's.
So I'm going to copy this command, then go back to my terminal.
You should have Docker up and running in your local desktop to validate.
I'm just going to run Docker version.
Okay.
As you can see, Docker is running in my local desktop.
So now I'm going to pass the command and press enter.
To validate if our container is running.
Run Docker piece and you can see our container is up and running.
We need to get a authentication key to access it from the website.
For that we need to go to Docker logs.
So we're going to run Docker logs and the name of the container ID.
So I'm just going to copy this container ID.
And you should see a section like this.
Jenkins initial setup is required.
An admin user has been created.
Please use the following password to proceed to installation.
So I'm going to double click this and then copy this and then I'm going to access localhost colon attached.
So I'm going to open another tab.
Typing localhost colon 880.
Here we go.
And I'm going to pest the administrator password that we copied from the docker logs.
Click continue.
And then select install suggested plug ins.
And it is going to install all the recommended plug ins.
After all the plugins are installed, you will get this screen.
So create a admin user, fill up the fields, just remember the username and password.
Every time you stop the container and restart it, you need to give that user ID and password to log
back in.
So I'm going to click Save and Continue.
Click Save and finish.
Jenkins is ready.
Click start using Jenkins.
And that should take you to the familiar Jenkins console.
All right.
So at this point, Jenkins is up and running in your local desktop.
All right, folks, that's how you install Jenkins in your local.
That's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and gals in the next one.